# Milestone Three

## The State of the Game

As of the Thursday demo the most important gameplay features were all available
- the player could lead their party around a randomly generated maze / map, and
the party members would engage in conversation, revealing bits of the story and
backstory through dialog.  Conversations were increased in frequency for the
demo, just so we could show off more content.

One piece that was clearly missing was the frame story.  You could walk around
the map, but you didn't really know why you should.  This was fixed overnight,
and at the Friday showcase we had beginning and ending scenes giving more
exposition about the zombie plague and the boat the party would use to get away.

A comment from the demo was that there was no way to judge progress - all the
paths looked pretty much the same.  The paths still look pretty much the same,
but progress is much more visible with the addition of a minimap, and the goal -
the boat - is stated in the introduction to be in the southeast corner of the
map, so you know where you're heading.

Many other things are on the wishlist, but never got implemented.  We wanted to
spice up the map with points of interest on the intersections, but as each of
these would involve custom art, code, and conversation we had to sacrifice them
to meet the deadline.  We also never got around to adding the actual zombies,
which would spread slowly across the map, forcing the player to make progress.


## Contributions

Art - Makena
Story - Francie
Code - Kevin


## Successes

Our characters are friggin' adorable.

And people seemed to enjoy watching the showcase quite a bit.  In fact, they
seemed to enjoy watching more than they enjoyed playing, which I take to mean
that our dialog was fun but our map was too big and/or too repetitive (we shrank
the map midway through the showcase to make it less of a slog for new players).
This might suggest that the game would work better if walking were automated -
pick a direction, and then sit back and watch the story.


## Challenges

One of the hardest things about this project was communication.  Since it was a
group project, we had to make sure that we were all trying to create the same
game.  I'm still not sure we got this part fully figured out - even towards the
end there was debate about whether the game, at its heart, was a walking game /
visual novel or a survival game.

The biggest technical challenge was content.  Since dialogs are selected
randomly, and since we were going for replay value - a few replays would be
necessary to get the full story - the amount of content we'd need to keep it
engaging is quite large. We eventually ended up with fifteen or so conversations
for the demo and twenty for the showcase, which was enough for those cases, but
for a real game we'd need many times that, plus the lamentably missing points of
interest, which would give the map more of a purpose.

